The first step to be able to work with Django to create our web application is to create a virtual environment
on your computer.
That brings us to an obvious question What is a virtual environment?
A virtual environment is a space inside your computer, we could say a folder that contains its own
python packages and libraries, which are kept separate from everything you have installed on the rest
of your computer.
Let me be clear with an example.
Imagine you want to develop two different projects for one of them.
You want to work with the NumPy library in its version 1.20 1.5.
But in the other project you want to be able to work with an older version of NumPy, let's say 1.13
point one.
What should you do?
Should you install an unstoppable uninstall numpy every time you need to use a different version?
You could do that, but it's certainly not the most practical approach there.
This is where virtual environments come in.
Now imagine you have a folder called My Environments.
These virtual environments allow you to create two different folders or spaces within which you are
going to work only with the python libraries you install inside each space.
So here you could create two folders, one called Project one, and then another called Project two.
And in the first one you install NumPy 1.20 1.5 and then the other one point 13.1.
So no matter what you have installed on your computer, when you work inside a virtual environment,
Python will only be able to access the libraries you have installed inside that environment.
In order to create virtual environments, we need to install the virtual env e and V module on your
computer.
Federico is going to show you how to do that and how to create your virtual environments right now.
And here we are at the computer.
I have the command prompt open so that I can install with PIP, install a virtual E and V.
In your case, it's going to load for the first time.
I'm just updating it because I have already installed it and now I'm going to show you a PIP command
called Freeze, which shows me all the Python libraries or modules that I have already installed on
my computer.
If I run it, it takes a few seconds and it tells me that I have all these installed.
Some of them have been installed along the course.
In short, this is what I have and you can see the version number of each of these modules.
So why am I showing you all this?
So that you can see that in the general environment of my computer you can find all these modules that
are already installed to work inside Python whenever I ask for them.
And now we're going to create a separate environment to this one.
And for that I'm going to create inside my desktop a new folder.
This folder is going to be called My Environment and we're going to open this folder and here inside
we're going to create two new folders.
The first one is going to be called Project one, and the second one is going to be called Project two.
And now we're going to access Project one from the console.
Then we're going to put see the desktop and we're going to follow the path.
Backslash My environment backslash project one.
Then I'm already inside this folder so I can create a virtual environment here.
So inside this folder we write the command, virtual envy, and now we put the name that we want to
give it, for example.
P one So remember that this is going to be created in the folder where I'm about at the moment, and
if I press enter, it takes a few seconds.
And if we come to project one, I have a folder which is P one.
If I open it, it has some folders and some files that show that a virtual environment has been created.
This virtual environment has been generated, but I haven't activated it yet.
To activate it, I go back to command and press dot backslash, the name of the environment which is
P one backslash scripts with a capital letter backslash activate.
This is the command to activate the environment.
So nothing has happened that we can see.
But what we can notice is that now at the beginning of my line, the name of the environment I am in
appears in brackets.
I am no longer in the computer in general, but I'm in my virtual environment, and this is when things
start to make sense to you.
If at this point I call Pip Frees Command again to see what modules I have installed.
Notice now, unlike before when I saw a bunch of modules, I don't see any.
So how come have they been uninstalled?
Did they disappear?
No.
This means that I'm inside a virtual environment, a separate space on my computer that doesn't have
any modules installed.
So here I can start as if it were a kind of empty court.
I have the possibility to decide which new libraries I can install.
Which versions I want to install.
And even if they repeat with the ones that they were there before, or even if they are new, I'm in
a separate space.
So let's see.
For example, some of the ones I had here, one of the simple ones, it could be PI jokes.
Remember, it's the module that we were installing during day 13 which contains jokes.
Here I can see the version number of PI jokes that I have installed.
Pay attention to this number.
We're also going to install it now with PIP installed pi jokes, but this time it's installing it to
my virtual environment.
And if I now go back and type a pip freeze to see what I have installed, I can only see PI jokes and
it's version number.
Again, pay attention to that number.
So let's keep it that way for now.
Apart from that, let's open a new command prompt to work in the second virtual environment I'm going
to create right now.
Here.
We're going to create an access to see the desktop again we put backslash my environment backslash project
to.
I'm going to create a virtual EMV here, which is going to be called P two and it takes a few seconds
and in theory it is already been generated.
So now I need to activate it again.
Remember, it's with dot backslash.
The name of the project which is P two.
Again, the backslash scripts backslash activate and enter.
And now we see P two at the beginning of the line.
So now I'm inside this virtual environment.
I can check it again if I press pip freeze.
And now, let's see.
I don't have anything.
I have neither the amount of libraries I had on my computer nor the Pi jokes library I just installed
in my P one virtual environment.
The virtual space p two has nothing.
Now let's install a different version of pi jokes inside p to pip install pipe jokes.
Now, instead of activating the most recent version by default, let's put twice the equals symbol to
set the version we want, and we put 0.4.0, which is an older version.
So it took some seconds and now it's supposed to be installed.
And if I now put pip frees, but this time inside the P two environment I have pi jokes 0.4.0 even though
in the virtual environment p one.
I have the newest version.
So in each window we can see that each virtual environment has its own modules or libraries.
That is its own reality or its own independent universe to work with.
Python And how do we deactivate an environment?
We just type deactivate and it's the activated it.
Notice that P one doesn't appear anymore at the beginning of my line and here we're going to also write
the activate and we have left the virtual environment.
P two.
These are just examples that you can understand how virtual environments work and what is the logic
of structuring a space in which you can work from scratch, clean with new folders, etc.?
So we go back to my environment and we're going to delete Projects one and Project two, which were
only created for demonstration purposes.
And now we're going to create the virtual environment that we're going to use inside today's main project.
Of course, I recommend that you have a folder like my environment or something like that, in which
you will always store all your virtual environments.
This is great to have them in order to be able to access them in a clear and precise way.
So now let's open another command prompt and we're going to create a space called my web.
We're going to create it here in the folders.
You could do it through the command prompt.
It's the same thing.
So we put my web and it's going to be the space where I'm going to host my environment.
And here we access again with CD desktop backslash, my environment backslash, my web and enter.
I'm already in the space that I want to use virtual EMV, and we're going to call Webb to this space.
The virtual space is being created there.
We're going to activate it now with dot backslash, the name of the space backslash scripts, backslash
activate.
At some point you're going to do this with your eyes closed.
Okay, it's generated.
And here we have the space in which from the next lesson onwards, we're going to start with Django
in order to create today's project.
So see you in the next lesson.